



Network Working Group                                       L. Johansson
Internet-Draft                                          SIROS Foundation
Intended status: Informational                           24 October 2025
Expires: 27 April 2026


                An AuthZEN profile for trust registries
                  draft-johansson-authzen-trust-latest

Abstract

   Trust registries come in many forms; ETSI trust status lists, OpenID
   Federation, ledgers.  This document describes a simple protocol in
   the form of a profile of AuthZen that provides a local interface to
   one or more trust registries.  The protocol is mant to be used as a
   local abstraction layer for any application that needs to evaluate
   trust.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://leifj.github.io/draft-johansson-authzen-trust.  Status
   information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-johansson-authzen-trust/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/leifj/draft-johansson-authzen-trust.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 27 April 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Security Considerations
   4.  IANA Considerations
   5.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   Technical trust in systems using asymmetric cryptography amounts to
   answering the question: is a given public key pk bound to a name n in
   context c.  One example is, given an X509 certificate (as a
   representative of a public key and name), doing PKIX path
   construction and subsequent path validation to determine if the X509
   is "valid" relative to a given set of trust roots.  In this example
   the trust registry is the set of roots together with the rules for
   path validation and construction set down in RFC 5280 and any
   additional local policy applied to the validation.

   The proliferation of distributed architectures have led to the
   development of a multitude of trust registries each with their own
   APIs for querying the registry and rules for evaluating trust.
   Application developers are often faced with the choice of supporting
   exactly one of these which of course leads to interoperability
   challenges.

   This document describes a local abstraction layer for trust
   evaluation that is intended to fill a role similar to the stub
   resolver in the DNS architecture.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Security Considerations

   The protocol described in this specification is meant to be used by
   applications that share a common trust domain and it may be perfectly
   reasonable for deployments of this specification to run on
   "localhost" and in other situations where security properties for the
   protocol is provided elsewhere in the stack.  Nevertheless the
   recommendations for authentication for AuthZen applies to this
   profile aswell and deployments SHOULD deploy the AuthZen trust
   endpoint with provisions for mutual authentication to ensure that
   false trust decisions cannot affect the overall system.

4.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

5.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Author's Address

   Leif Johansson
   SIROS Foundation
   Email: leifj@siros.org
